=head1 NAME

collectd-basic_aggregator - Documentation of collectd's C<basic_aggregator plugin>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  LoadPlugin basic_aggregator
  <Plugin basic_aggregator>
      Aggregators_config_file "/etc/collectd/aggregator.conf"
  </Plugin>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<basic_aggregator plugin> aggregates DS of types or types instances and
reinject the result as a new value.
It has a separate configuration file to allow you to change aggregators definitions at runtime.
If the date of the configuration file changes, it will be read again. So you may not write directly into it, but write
into another file and then move (overwrite) the original file.

=head1 AGGREGATOR CONFIGURATION FILE EXAMPLE

  <aggregator>
  	resultvalue "aggregator_0/load/load"
  	operation "AVG"
  	operation "SUM"
  	<valuelist manual>
  		type	"host1/load/load"
  		type	"host2/load/load"
  	</valuelist>
  </aggregator>
  <aggregator>
  	resultvalue "aggregator_1/cpu-total/cpug"
  	operation "AVG"
  	operation "SUM"
  	<valuelist manual>
  		alltypesof	"host10/cpu-total/cpu"
  		alltypesof	"host20/cpu-total/cpu"
  	</valuelist>
  </aggregator>
  ...

=head1 CONFIGURATION

With B<Aggregators_config_file>, the configuration block defines where the aggregators configuration file is.

The configuration file specified in the B<Aggregators_config_file> value contains B<aggregator> blocks to define each aggregator.

=head2 The B<aggregator> block

The B<aggregator> block defines an aggregator
queried. The following options can be set:

=over 4

=item B<resultvalue> I<type>

This is the type of the aggregator. The result values will be aggregated into this
type.

Note : if specified, the instance will be ignored. The instances will be computed
from the aggregated type instances (see the I<valuelist> block).

=item B<operation> I<AVG|SUM>

Define the aggregator operations to be done.
More than one operation can be defined.

=back

=head2 The B<valuelist> block

=over 4

=item B<valuelist> I<manual>

When specified as I<manual>, you need to specify what types to aggregate.

=item B<type> I<type|type-instance>

Specify a type (litteral) for which all the DS will be aggregated.

=item B<alltypesof> I<type>

Specify a type (no instances) for which all the instances will be retreived.
All the DS of all the instances will be aggregated.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>,

=head1 AUTHOR

Yves Mettier E<lt>ymettier at free.frE<gt>
Cyril Feraudet E<lt>cyril at feraudet.comE<gt>

=cut
