=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

collectd-tg - Traffic generator for collectd.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

collectd-tg B<-n> I<num_vl> B<-H> I<num_hosts> B<-p> I<num_plugins> B<-i> I<interval> B<-d> I<dest> B<-D> I<dport>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<collectd-tg> generates bogus I<collectd> network traffic. While host, plugin
and values are generated randomly, the generated traffic tries to mimic "real"
traffic as closely as possible.

=head1 ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS

The following options are understood by I<collectd-tg>. The order of the
arguments generally doesn't matter, as long as no argument is passed more than
once.

=over 4

=item B<-n> I<num_vl>

Sets the number of unique I<value lists> (VL) to generate. Defaults to 10000.

=item B<-H> I<num_hosts>

Sets the number of unique hosts to simulate. Defaults to 1000.

=item B<-p> I<num_plugins>

Sets the number of unique plugins to simulate. Defaults to 20.

=item B<-i> I<interval>

Sets the interval in which each I<value list> is dispatched. Defaults to 10.0
seconds.

=item B<-d> I<dest>

Sets the destination to which to send the generated network traffic. Defaults
to the IPv6 multicast address, C<ff18::efc0:4a42>.

=item B<-D> I<dport>

Sets the destination port or service to which to send the generated network
traffic. Defaults to I<collectd's> default port, C<25826>.

=item B<-h>

Print usage summary.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>

=head1 AUTHOR

Florian Forster E<lt>octoE<nbsp>atE<nbsp>collectd.orgE<gt>

=cut
