=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

collectd-btrfs - Documentation of collectd's I<Btrfs plugin>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

The btrfs plugin read device stats from an mounted BTRFS-Filesystem.


Error counts reported by this plugin ( mainly from btrfs-documentation, see man L<btrfs-device> )

count-err-write
   Failed writes to the block devices, means that the layers beneath the filesystem were not able to satisfy the
   write request.

count-err-read
   Read request analogy to count-err-write.

count-err-flush
   Number of failed writes with the FLUSH flag set. The flushing is a method of forcing a particular order between
   write requests and is crucial for implementing crash consistency. In case of btrfs, all the metadata blocks must
   be permanently stored on the block device before the superblock is written.

count-err-corrupt
   A block checksum mismatched or a corrupted metadata header was found.

count-err-generate
   The block generation does not match the expected value (eg. stored in the parent node).

count-err
    The sum of all error-counts mentioned above


=head1 CONFIGURATION

Here is a configuration example to get you started. Read below for more
information.

  LoadPlugin btrfs
  <Plugin btrfs>
    RefreshMounts "on"
  </Plugin>


B<RefreshMounts> If this is set to "on", the plugin load /proc/mounts on every refresh.
This is useful if you often mount/unmount btrfs-volumes. If you not use this option,
mounted btrfs-volumes will be readed during start of collectd.


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>
L<btrfs-device>

=head1 AUTHOR

Martin Langlotz E<lt>martin.langlotzE<nbsp>atE<nbsp>evilbrain.deE<gt>
